docs(tools): add nx style-guide (#21210)
microsoft/fluentui: tools/STYLE-GUIDE.md

# NX tooling dev/style guide

## Generators

- generators live in `tools/generators` folder

### Scaffolding

```sh
<generator-name>/
|- files/
    |- some-file.ts.__tmpl__
    |- config.json.__tmpl__
|- lib/
    |- utils.ts
    |- utils.spec.ts
    |- add-foo.ts
    |- add-foo.spec.ts
|- index.ts
|- index.spec.ts
|- schema.ts
|- schema.json
|- README.md
```

**`files/` (optional)**

- static or dynamic templates used to generated files should live here.
- every file ends with `__tmpl__` suffix.
  - eg `my-file.ts__tmpl__`
  - `__tmpl__` will be removed during generation

**`lib/` (optional)**

- if your generator becomes too big/complicated this is the place where you should split your logic into smaller modules.
- every module should have unit test if it makes sense

**`index.ts`**

- entry point to the generator

**`index.spec.ts`**

- integration tests for the generator as a whole

**`schema.ts`**

- TypeScript interface that matches schema.json

> - you can use following command to automate the conversion from json:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- you can use the following command to automate the conversion from json:
```

# NX tooling dev/style guide

## Generators

- generators live in `tools/generators` folder
- [learn more about generators](https://nx.dev/generators/workspace-generators)

### Scaffolding

```sh
<generator-name>/
|- files/
    |- some-file.ts.__tmpl__
    |- config.json.__tmpl__
|- lib/
    |- utils.ts
    |- utils.spec.ts
    |- add-foo.ts
    |- add-foo.spec.ts
|- index.ts
|- index.spec.ts
|- schema.ts
|- schema.json
|- README.md
```

**`files/` (optional)**

- static or dynamic templates used to generated files should live here.
- every file ends with `__tmpl__` suffix.
  - eg `my-file.ts__tmpl__`
  - `__tmpl__` will be removed during generation

**`lib/` (optional)**

> - if your generator becomes too big/complicated this is the place where you should split your logic into smaller modules.
> - every module should have unit test if it makes sense

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider splitting your logic into smaller modules if your generator becomes too big/complicated. This is the place where you should split your logic into smaller modules.

If it makes sense, try to provide a unit test for every module.
```

**`index.ts`**

> - entry point to the generator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Entry point to the generator.
```

**`index.spec.ts`**

> - integration tests for the generator as a whole

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Integration tests for the generator as a whole.
```

**`schema.ts`**

> - TypeScript interface that matches schema.json
> - you can use the following command to automate the conversion from json:
>   - `npx json-schema-to-typescript -i tools/generators/<generator-name>/schema.json -o tools/generators/<generator-name>/schema.ts`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TypeScript interface that matches `schema.json`. You can generate this from the json file by running:
- `npx json-schema-to-typescript -i tools/generators/<generator-name>/schema.json -o tools/generators/<generator-name>/schema.ts`
```

**`schema.json`**

> - provides a description of the generator, available options, validation information, and default values. This is processed by nx cli when invoking generator to provide argument validations/processing/prompts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Provides a description of the generator, available options, validation information, and default values. This is processed by nx cli when invoking generator to provide argument validations/processing/prompts.
```

**`README.md`**

> - generator documentation - about + API
>   - NOTE: in future this will be automatically generated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generator documentation - about + API

ℹ️ _NOTE: In future, this will be automatically generated._
```

### Bootstrap new generator

> - via CLI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### CLI:
```

```sh
yarn nx workspace-generator workspace-generator
```

> - via Nx Console:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Nx Console:
```

![Generate new workspace generator via NX Console](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223799/148544909-034ebe44-eef1-4686-960d-cb3547da55b7.png)

## Migrations

> - migrations live in `tools/generators` folder
>   - ideally this should live under `tools/migrations` but because constraint of how workspace generators invocation works in nx, we are restricted to to place them alongside standard generators
> - everything from `Generators` guide applies
>   - migration generator is just a standard generator with different purpose
> - generator name starts with `migrate-*` (for example - `migrate-my-package`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Migrations live in the `tools/generators` folder. They should ideally live in `tools/migrations` but due to how workspace generator invocations works in nx, we are restricted to place them alongside standard generators.

Migrations follow same rules as [Generators](#Generators) as they behave the same but serve a different purpose.

⚠️ Migrations generator's name should start with `migrate-*`.
  - ✅ `migrate-my-package`
  - ❌ `migration-mu-package`
```

## Executors

> - executors live in `tools/executors` folder
> - [learn more about executors](https://nx.dev/executors/using-builders)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Executors should live in the `tools/executors` folder. [Learn more about Nx executors](https://nx.dev/executors/using-builders).
```
